Let's turn our attention to AWS Systems Manager.
It offers a number of management and governance capabilities
that can be group under five broad categories.
First one is Operations Management.
This is a suite of capabilities that helps you manage AWS resources.
Application Management is a set of capabilities that lets you
manage the applications that are running in AWS.
Actions & Change let's you automate some of the common maintenance tasks,
like applying OS patches, resetting SSH keys and passwords.
Instances & Nodes offers multiple capabilities for
managing your on‑premises service, VMs, and your EC2 instances.
We will dive deep and see a demo of two main functionalities,
Run Command and Session Manager shortly.
And the last one is Shared Resources.
That maintains all the documents for managing and configuring AWS resources.
Let's see a demo of how to use Run Command.
It lets you securely manage the configuration of a managed instance.
A managed instance can be an EC2 instance or an on‑premises instance.
To manage any instance, there are a few prerequisites that needs to be made.
First one is to install SSM agent,
and the agent is preinstalled on AMIs like Amazon Linux,
Amazon Linux 2, Ubuntu Server 16.04 and 18.04,
and Windows Server 2016 and 2019.
If you have chosen any other AMIs, you need to manually install the agent.
Please refer to AWS documentation for detailed
instruction on how to install this agent.
Next one is creating the IAM role on associating it with your EC2 instance.
Let's log in to AWS Console and see a demo of all these steps.
Since the instance that I launched already had SSM preinstalled,
I'm going to set up the IAM role first.
Go to IAM console.
Click on Roles to your left.
Choose Create Role.
Choose EC2 under Common use cases, and click on Permissions.
Next, to filter policies, type SSM, and select the policy, AmazonEC2RoleforSSM.
Click Tags.
I'm going to add Environment as key and Dev as the value.
Click Review.
Enter a name for the role under description.
Click Create role.
A new role with the name globo_dev_access has been created.
Now let's go back to EC2 console and link our EC2 instance to this role.
Click on Running instances.
Select the instance, and currently there are no roles linked with this instance.
Let's set up this connection now.
Click Actions.
Choose Instance Settings and select Attach/Replace IAM Role.
Under IAM role, select globo_dev_access, and click Apply.
Click Close.
Scroll up,
and you can see the new IAM role has been
successfully linked with this EC2 instance.
Now let's go back to Systems Manager and see how Run Command works.
I just switched to AWS Systems Manager console.
Click on Run Command to your left.
Choose Run Command.
Click on the search bar, and choose Document name prefix,
select Equals, and enter AWS‑RunShellScript.
Under Command parameters, enter a simple yum update command,
which you will run at the Linux command prompt.
You have the option to enter the working directory where
you would like to issue the command, and a default timeout has been already set.
Now let's select the instance where you would like to run this command.
Let's choose the instance manually,
and select the instance where we link the IAM role.
Under the Output options,
you can either choose and S3 bucket where you would like to
write the output or select the CloudWatch log group where
you would like to send the logs.
There is an option to trigger the SNS notification as well.
Click Run, and the Run Command is currently being executed.
Let me hit Refresh,
and you can see that the Run Command has been successfully completed,
and its start time and end time are displayed.
Let me select the instance and click on View output.
Expand the Output section,
and you can see the output of the command that issued to Run Command is being displayed here.